---
layout: index
title: On the Train
---

# Once you are on the train

All right! Your train has arrived! Time to get to an exciting New York destination. Here is how to do it with the least amount of hassle.

## Basic Train Etiquette

You will feel a lot of pressure to jam yourself into the car as soon as the doors open. It's okay; we all feel it too. But try to resist and let people get out of the train before you board. It just makes sense.

Once you're inside, you'll probably want to look for a seat. It might be hard at first, but you have to get comfortable of sitting next to strangers. Open seats fill up fast, so it's either sit down or prepare to stand for the whole ride. Of course, it goes without saying that whatever seat you have should be given to the elderly and people with disabilities.

If you're standing, look for a handhold in the middle of the car where there are fewer people.

## Train Layout

Just so you know where you're headed, there are at least two subway maps posted on the interior of the train car. Every subway car usually has two maps posted in it on either side of the car. The newest subway cars have strip maps that show stops along the line, a digital readout of the upcoming stop, and a mechanical voice that announces the current and next station.

## In Case of Emergency

If you are on the train, take a look at the instructions posted (usually on opposite ends of the car). If you are on a platform, go to staffed station booth, where agents have radios or phones to contact emergency medical services and the police. If all else fails, get to the surface and call 9-1-1.
